Yes, that is exactly what you should do.

Use Replit to build this as a branch of the existing repo, not as a separate disconnected app. That preserves context because the prototype can reference the current visual structure, files, assets, layouts, and naming patterns directly.

Replit’s docs say its Git integration supports tracking changes, GitHub connectivity, and branches so you can experiment with new features safely.  ￼ Replit’s Git pane also supports creating, switching, and merging branches visually, plus staging, committing, reviewing, and pushing changes.  ￼

The right approach

main branch
= current visual structure / stable reference
review-workbench-prototype branch
= Replit builds the text editor reviewer inside the same app

This way, everything stays directly relevant, but your main version is protected.

⸻

Instructions for Replit Agent

Paste this whole block into Replit Agent:

I want to build this as a feature branch inside the existing repo, not as a separate app.
Repo:
warrenghaad/HTML-CSS-JS-Static-1
Create or switch to a branch named:
review-workbench-prototype
Goal:
Build the EUCLID Text Review Workbench inside this existing app so it can preserve and use the current visual structure, mapping, assets, styles, and file organization.
Important:
Do not delete existing files.
Do not rename existing files.
Do not reorganize the existing app.
Do not replace the current visual system.
Do not convert the whole app to a new framework.
Do not integrate Notion yet.
Do not build Electron yet.
Do not create a complex database yet.
This branch should add a prototype text editor reviewer that lives inside the current app.
Build Version 0.1 only.
Version 0.1 should include:
1. A Review Workbench page.
2. A link or button from the existing app to the Review Workbench.
3. A left panel for document/file list.
4. A center editable text panel.
5. A right review panel.
6. A bottom TOC / placement map panel.
7. A sample document loaded into the editor.
8. A status selector with:
   - Inbox
   - Active Review
   - Canon
   - Canon Candidate
   - Fragment
   - Conflict
   - Superseded
   - Archive
   - Build-System
   - Lesson
   - Obsidian Ready
9. A field for future destination file.
10. A field for review notes.
11. A Generate Provisional TOC button.
12. The TOC button should detect Markdown headings beginning with #, ##, or ###.
13. A Create Placement Map Note button.
14. The placement map should include:
   - current document name
   - status
   - future destination file
   - review notes
   - detected headings
   - unresolved questions placeholder
Preferred file locations:
- pages/review-workbench.html
- scripts/review-workbench.js
- styles/review-workbench.css
- data/review-metadata.json
- data/future-tocs/
- data/placement-maps/
- data/obsidian-ready/
If the repo already has a different convention, follow the existing convention.
Data safety:
For Version 0.1, do not overwrite original files.
It is acceptable for edits to stay in browser memory.
If saving is added, save only generated review metadata or generated placement-map output.
Do not edit source documents automatically.
Before implementing:
1. Inspect the repo structure.
2. Tell me the proposed file changes.
3. Explain how the branch protects the main app.
4. Wait for my approval before applying changes.

⸻

Instructions for you

1. In Replit, import/open the repo

Use:

https://github.com/warrenghaad/HTML-CSS-JS-Static-1

Replit supports importing GitHub repositories into an app.  ￼

2. Open the Git pane

Look for Replit’s Git/version-control area.

Replit’s Git pane is meant to let you review changes, stage files, commit, push, and manage branches visually.  ￼

3. Create a branch

Create this branch:

review-workbench-prototype

4. Paste the Replit Agent instructions above

Do not ask it to build everything. Ask for Version 0.1 only.

5. When Replit shows a plan, approve only if it says it will add files

Good signs:

add pages/review-workbench.html
add scripts/review-workbench.js
add styles/review-workbench.css
add data/review-metadata.json
add link to existing navigation

Danger signs:

delete
replace
restructure
migrate
convert entire project
rename existing folders
remove current app

If you see danger signs, reply:

Stop. Do not restructure the repo. Only add the Review Workbench page and supporting files on this branch.

6. After it works, commit the branch

Commit message:

Add prototype Review Workbench

Then push the branch to GitHub.

⸻

Why branch inside the same app is better

Because your current app already contains:

visual structure
mapping logic
assets
styles
current navigation ideas
current data folders
HTML/CSS/JS conventions

A separate app would lose that context.

A branch keeps the prototype close to the living organism without cutting into the heartwood. 🌳

Clean mental model

main
= preserve current app
review-workbench-prototype
= add text editor reviewer
future branch
= add AI review
future branch
= add Obsidian export
future branch
= add Notion workflow

So yes: build it as a Replit branch of the same repo. That is the right move.